* License

    CCNQ3 -- carrierclass.net v3
    Copyright (C) 2011  Stéphane Alnet

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

* Content

etc/
  lighttpd2/  -- Proxy for main site
  monit/      -- System monitoring examples

applications/
  portal/     -- Registration, etc.
  roles/      -- On-the-fly creation of new (read) replicas from global databases
  prepaid/    -- Prepaid call handling
  cnam/       -- CNAM client

  common/     -- Generic applications (replication, sending mail)
  _users/     -- Bootstrapping
  host/       -- Host installation

  provisioning/   -- Installation and application for the provisioning database

lib/          -- CoffeeScript libraries
  cdb         -- CouchDB access helpers
  cdb_changes -- monitor CouchDB _changes handler
  esl         -- Access to the FreeSwitch Event System
  json_req    -- An extension to the "request" module to handle JSON
  password    -- A memorable password generator

public/       -- Common content that should be installed under the root of the main site
              -- and made available as (relative URI) /public/...
  images/
  js/         -- javascripts
  css/        -- stylesheets

private/      -- Misc. application under development (might eventually move under applications/)

common/       -- Repository for other applications data
  freeswitch/
  mediaproxy/
  opensips/

slayers/      -- REST interfaces to other protocoles
  dsmlayer    -- The Dancer Session Manager used in ccnq2.0
  pgslayer    -- A generic REST-to-DBI interface

* Applications code layout

  agents/     -- Any background agents; most of them monitor CouchDB _changes and
              -- act upon insertion / modification ..
  couchapps/  -- CouchApps (in CoffeeScript)
              -- Normally called "_design/${application}" with ${application} the name
              -- of the application (to avoid conflicts).
  node/       -- Zappa REST APIs
  scripts/    -- FreeSwitch (Lua) scripts
  conf/       -- FreeSwitch configuration fragments (examples)

  *.config files are actually JSON documents

* APIs

In most cases (except for the core portal) the application is driven from the
web browser. Therefor most applications will provide REST/JSON APIs only.

Moreover these are only provided for databases updates (where the node/ code
allows writer access without allowing reader access to the global CouchDB databases).
For databases read, the application is a couchapp or (equivalently) static client-side
HTML and Javascript, accessing the "source+prefix"-specific database directly.

* Central databases

The following central databases are available:
  _users        -- System-wide authentication and authorization
  usercode      -- System-wide replicatable applications
  provisioning  -- System-wide provisioning information (host, endpoint, location, number, ..)
  billing       -- System-wide billing information (account, ..)
  cdr           -- System-wide CDR repository

* Unified web access

The web access is unified as follows:

  - A unified website, such as https://example.net/ , is used for all applications.
    The main page should include /public/js/default.js , /public/css/default.css , and
    contain a "content" ID where the CCNQ3 applications will load.

  - The content in the subdirectories of "public" is available under the root:
      https://example.net/public/js
      https://example.net/public/css
      https://example.net/public/images

  - The "portal" application must be accessible under /u/
      i.e.  https://example.net/u/path  is a proxy for  /path in the portal application

  - The global couchdb databases (_users,provisioning,..) and all the u${UUID} databases are mapped at the root.

  - CouchDB's _session is mapped at the root.
    [FIXME This assumes we can use a distributed session scheme in CouchDB which doesn't exist yet.]
    [For now this doesn't cause any issue as long as the website uses a single CouchDB host for sessions.]

Such a unified URI space can be constructed using standard application mount points / reverse proxy in nginx, etc.
We present an example configuration for lighttp2 because nginx does currently not support reverse proxying IPv6 hosts, while lighttp2 (or apache2) does.
