= Account transport accross trust boundaries =

[[bugs/done]]

Implement transport of account identification across trust boundaries.

The feature is being implemented as part of CCNQ3's outbound-proxy. This needs to be expedited so that Jim Gorman can work with faxback to deploy their multi-tenant solution while still using Sotel as the billing provider.

Specification: the account information must be passed across the trust boundary. Current implementation would be to use a Request-URI parameter, "account", to carry the account. However more research is required to ensure there isn't a standard (RFC) way of doing this.

Research:

- RFC5503 [ http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5503#page-14 ] specifies P-DCS-BILLING-INFO, however the header is complex and specific to PacketCable.

- P-Charge-Info is being specified [ http://blogs.voxeo.com/speakingofstandards/2008/05/13/p-charge-info-and-incredible-disconnect-between-pstn-billing-and-the-new-world-of-sip/ ] and [ http://tools.ietf.org/rfcmarkup?doc=draft-york-sipping-p-charge-info ].
  This is selected as the proper solution. (The P-Charge-Info header must be removed by the UA, not passed along.)

- A 403 response (rather than 407) should be used to indicate that, although the UAC was recognized as a trusted agent by the proxy, the account presented was not authorized for that UAC.


Other options:

- RURI parameter (current implementation): not a good idea, URI parameters are IANA-registered;

- separate domain name for each end-user account; cons: requires additional code to handle DNS changes (need one new subdomain with SRV records per account);

- use the calling number (or P-Charge-Info URI) as the billing identifier -- requires to check that the calling number is registered; prevents wholesalers to use the mechanism.
